So, let it roll David.
Okay, David, he needs to check your voice one more time if you can maybe count to five
or so.
Four score in seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent, etc.
Okay.
Does that do it?
Yeah, he said it looks good.
Are we ready?
Yes.
Okay.
First of all, Mr. DeCamp, we wondered just a little bit about your origins as a writer
back in the late 1930s, such things as, or the circumstances that caused you to start
writing.
Well, in 1937 and eight, I was working in Scranton, Pennsylvania as principal of the
school of inventing and patenting of the International Correspondence School.
And I had a friend in New York, an old college roommate of mine named John Clark, who was
out of a job and looking for one.
And in order to continue to eat, he, who was a more faithful reader of the science fiction
magazine than I was at that time, wrote a couple of stories.
And I used to come in once twice a month in New York, and I'd stay at his apartment and
we'd sit up late and plot a couple of these stories.
So I gave him some help with them.
He sent them to F. Arlen Cremain and the editor of Astounding and to everybody's surprise,
he sold them.
So I thought, well, if he can do that, why can't I?
So having plenty of spare time in Scranton, I wrote a couple and sent them in.
And to my surprise, they were bought.
Well, at that point, I said, if we, why hasn't somebody told me about this before?
Sure beats working.
So I wrote a few more stories and articles, sold some, didn't sell others.
And then at the end of 19, let me see, it was the beginning of 1939, I was working at
another job as one of the editors on a trade journal in New York.
I got fired in an economy purge.
So I thought, instead of fooling around with these piddling editorial jobs, why don't I
try freelancing?
You see, I figured that if I spent five hours a week on my own time writing and made a certain
amount of money, if I could spend 50 hours a week at it, I'd make 10 times that much.
Well, of course, there's a fallacy there because you soon run into a law of diminishing returns.
But nevertheless, I took the plunge and found that in freelancing, I earned about as much
as I had been doing.
And I could be my own boss, work at my own pace, work sitting down and wear out all my
old clothes.
So except for a couple of temporary jobs and the Second World War, in which I was in the
Naval Reserve, I've been at it ever since.
Excellent.
Okay.
Those first couple of stories you mentioned that were published to your surprise, was
one of those hyperpolosity?
Yes, hyperpolosity and the isolingual.
What kind of money did you get when you published those?
Well, let me see.
I think it was a set of word, which means I got something like 30 or 40 dollars, I suppose.
Actually, if you ask me what was my first published story, that is the question that
can have any one of three answers.
If you mean the first one I started writing, it was the novel, Genus Homo, in collaboration
with the late Skyler Miller.
But that, although we started that back around 1936, took us over two years to finish it
and it wasn't published on 1941.
If you mean what was the first story I completed?
It was a rather amateurish little caveman story called The Hairless Ones Come, the usual
story about the conflict between the Andretal men and the Chromen Yards who overran Europe,
the end of the Fourth Glaciation.
And that was published in 1939, I believe it was, in a short live magazine of historical
adventure called Golden Fleet.
But that was the first one finished.
Then the first one published was, I believe, the isolinguals.
Okay.
You obviously have a widespread reputation as a writer of humor, probably the foremost
in the field of science fiction.
Do you think...
That's good of you to say so.
Yeah, do you think of yourself as a humorist?
I mean, is that a label that you want or that you agree with?
Let's say that I'm not an exclusive professional humorist of the type of the Lepege Woodhouse,
for example, but on the other hand, I do try to liven up most of my fiction with a generous
sprinkling of humor.
Of course, remember that although people generally refer to me as a science fiction writer,
the reason is mainly that I made my early reputation in that field.
Actually, fiction is only about half of my output, rest being science, history, biography,
literary criticism, and so on.
And of the fictional half, aside from five historical novels that I've written, about
half is science fiction in a strict sense and half is fantasy.
So only about a quarter of my output is really science fiction in a strict sense.
Yeah, no, I understand that.
Back to humor for just a moment.
Many critics and readers and commentators, whatever, have said that science fiction and
humor don't mix well with a good science fiction humor, a story or novel, is sort of a rarity.
What would be your comment about that?
Well, all I can say is that it is true that there aren't a great many humorous stories
in that field, but then of course there aren't a great many humorous stories in any genre
of fiction.
Some people do it and some people don't.
Now back in before the first world, the Second World War, I'm not that old quite yet, but
before the Second World War, of the active science fiction writers in the country, there
were only two who were considered humorous science fiction writers, and I was one and
Henry Kutner was the other.
Curiously enough, both Henry and I, in our private lives, were rather serious, solemn
fellow.
Okay, for a number of years I've been a fan of your Harold Shea stories, the ones you
collaborated with Fletcher Pratt on.
Yes.
If I understand right now, the first one of those was the roaring trumpet published around
1940 or so.
Yes.
Okay, how did that collaboration with Fletcher Pratt start?
Fletcher Pratt was a military and naval historian, among other things, and he ran a naval war
game in his apartment in New York City.
Later they moved to a hired hall when the game got too large, in which people crawled
around on the floor, pushing little model boats, ship warships, models of real ships,
which Fletcher whittled out at his desk while he was waiting for the next sentence to come.
They were made out of balsa wood and wires and pins and things.
And I was also a naval buff, a regular reader of James' fighting ships and so forth, and
I could tell you what was the armament of the French Terrible class, 5.5 inch guns,
and so on.
And so was John Clark, and he got in touch with Fletcher, being more aggressive, let
us say, unless shy of an eye, in such matters.
He went around and called on him and presently was enrolled in the naval war game, and then
he brought me around to meet Fletcher, and I was enrolled and was a regular war game
player.
Well, Fletcher was at that time an established and active writer, and I was a struggling
young pro, you might say.
So John said to me, hey, Fletcher says he would like to see you.
He has an idea for some stories.
So I went around to Fletcher, and he proposed that he and I collaborate on a series of stories
based upon this far out theory that you can slip into any universe you want, by manipulating
the symbols of symbolic logic.
I had been studying symbolic logic a little bit, all its cute or simple things.
So, okay, we went to it.
And that is how the five Harold Shea stories originated, as well as the other practicap
collaborations.
One thing that's sort of interested me about that particular collaboration, it seems to
me that humor is a very, I guess, a personal thing.
I've always wondered how that kind of a writing process worked.
For instance, did you write a story and he go over it?
Did you do alternate stories?
How can you, how was the actual mechanics of that?
Our method of collaboration, that is to say, the one that we found that worked the best
for us, was that he and I would get together on an afternoon, usually in his apartment,
and thresh out story ideas.
He would come up with one and I'd say, no, no, that's not logical for this or that reason.
Or I'd say, well, it seems to me that that's the same storyline that Cutter had just last
year, such and such a magazine.
So forth and so on.
And finally we get a story more or less beaten into shape.
And I'd make notes in shorthand, which I had taught myself.
And I'd take them home and I'd write out a synopsis of the story and submit that to
Fletcher and he would make any additions or changes that he thought desirable.
And I'd type the rough graft and give it to him and he would type the final graft.
I have found in collaborations in general that it's usually better for the younger writer
of the pair to do the rough and the older one, the final.
The reason being that the younger writer is apt to have more energy and more facility,
but the older one, having been around longer, has a sharper critical sense of spotting illogicalities,
infelicities of expression and things of that sort, meaning them out.
Very good.
None of those stories had anything to do with Campbell, did it?
John W. Campbell is an editor.
Those were entirely separate from him, weren't they?
Well, John Campbell published the first three of the Harold Shea novels.
Okay, yeah, what I was getting at was this.
The world of Norse mythology or any of those that you construct, the consistency of it.
Harold Shea, none of his modern things work.
The matches, the guns.
In other words, there's an internal consistency in the world, even though magic works.
That's right.
Was that your own idea?
Well, that was a common idea.
I mean, both Fletcher and I had long since agreed that, right from the start,
that the most effective is that in writing fantasy, you have to be even more careful
about internal consistency than you do in writing a realistic story,
because the reader's credulity is already stretched like a rubber band, you see,
and if you put extra strain on it by having some obvious contradiction, it's going to snap.
That point will probably stop reading.
Okay, good.
Right.
Just my observation that a lot of the science fantasy that was being written back then,
especially, did not have that kind of consistency.
That is quite right.
And I consider myself fairly good at following a train of logic and spotting cases where people
commit inconsistencies of that sort.
As for example, one colleague of mine, with whom I have collaborated,
on one night he will have a full moon and on the next night he will have a new moon.
Well, you can't do that, you know, because it takes two weeks to get from one state to the other.
Right, yes, I agree entirely.
In the Harold Shea stories, as in most or many of the other novels you've written,
at least in the science fantasy area, my observation is that your humor comes from the unexpected things
that happen when you put, say, a modern man back into a world of legend or myth.
One of the basic elements of humor in my estimation is the element of surprise or incongruity.
In other words, a derby hat on a London businessman is not funny because they all wear them.
But a derby hat on Trudy, a seizure is, you see, because it's incongruous.
And that is a very considerable factor in humor.
Right, and to make that incongruity, I guess, obvious or effective,
you had to construct, I guess, very realistic or very accurate kinds of background.
Say, if it happened in the ancient world or a mythological world, you had to develop a highly realistic context for it.
That's right.
Where did your knowledge, your background in ancient history and mythology and so forth come from?
Did you have to research those things heavily or?
Actually, I've always been a very heavy reader.
I was reading Darwin's origin of species through at the age of seven, you know, and things like that.
And I had a pretty good historical and mythological knowledge.
But actually, for the roaring trumpet fletcher, knew a good deal more about that than I,
because he was an enthusiast for the northern thing, as William Morris called it.
And it belonged to a group that got together in Boston and read Icelandic sagas to each other in the original.
Well, therefore, he was way ahead of me in the matter of Norse mythology.
Then the second story was played in the world of Spencer's fairy queen.
And I had never read the fairy queen, so I sat down and utically plowed right through it.
I never did have quite the enthusiasm for it.
That fletcher did. I found it pretty tedious for long stretches, but nevertheless, he thought highly of it.
And he went through it. And then for the third one, why we...
I knew something about Ariostos Orlando Furioso, although I'd never read it through,
but it wasn't very difficult to get hold of a set and read it.
And that finished the material layer.
Well, then after the Second World War, we sent Harold to the world of the Finnish Kalevala.
And that was simply a matter of getting the Everyman's Library edition and reading through that and taking notes.
And we finally had him end up where he'd wanted to go all along, which is in the mythological Ireland of Cuffolan and Queen Maeve.
And I already knew a fair amount about that, but I read up some more. So we got the stories.
What about some of your more historical places, like the Rome of Less Darkness Fall?
Did you attempt to make that a picture of how 6th century Rome might have been?
Yes, I did. I read everything I could get my hands on it from all the way from the original sources, such as Procopius.
And the letters of what's his name? The Cassiodorus, which are available.
And the various modern works on the final period of the fall of the Rome of the West Roman Empire and the barbarian era that followed.
The reason I asked that is one time I read a critic or commentator on that book and he'd assumed or made the statement that he thought it might have been an alternate universe, but I thought that was incorrect that you'd attempted to do.
No, it was not intended to be, although I'll have to confess to one minor error. After the book came out, I got a letter from a professor at Dalby at Columbia University with my new slide.
He was saying that he'd read the book and enjoyed it greatly, but did I realize it on page such and such where I had a couple of my characters speaking Gothic?
I realized that I had one of them use the nominative case where he should have used the vocative.
Did you go back and change it?
I don't remember. I think I did, but I'm not sure. It was just a matter of dropping an S off the end.
I have another question on that book. It's not often I get a chance to ask an author about his intentions or his purposes. Maybe it's not a fair question, but some people have said, I've read this, that you had a serious theme to that work that one, you know, one, can one man change the past for the better?
And I'm not sure if that was intended or if that's even a fair question, but did you have that kind of a theme behind it?
I mean, I took that as my assumption as to whether it's so or not. I don't know. I don't think anyone else knows either.
Because there's such a large factor of luck in all these historical developments, you know, as Napoleon had fallen off his horse and broken his neck early in his career.
What would have happened? History is full of things like that where what looks like is going to be an amazing career, is cut short by some adventitious circumstance.
However, my primary purpose in writing fiction has always been to entertain. And everything else takes a secondary place now.
I don't say that a little preaching propaganda for causes that I personally admire like wildlife conservation, let's say, or my personal opinions and prejudices don't sneak in now and then.
But nevertheless, the main purpose is entertainment. Some people say have said that, oh, well, such and such a story by DeKamp is a satire, a satirical.
Well, I don't consider myself a satirist. In other words, I don't write for the intention with the intention of holding up some human institution or form of action
to ridicule in the serious hope of getting people to change it. But on the other hand, the human scene around me is so full of dramatic and absurd and comical features that it's only natural to use them and put them in my stories.
You have beautifully anticipated my next question, which was going to be that I did see a strain of gentle satire in your work and I was going to ask you to comment what you have.
Well, as I say, you don't, if you really look around you over a good many years, you see so many funny things that you don't have to exercise great ingenuity or imagination in order to get an entertaining story out of it.
Just to add a little bit to that, though, one of your later books, The Great Fetish, which the copy I have was published in 1978, my personal response to that was that there was more of a bite and more of a purpose to the satire, it seemed to me, in that book, particularly on, say, evolution and religion and so forth.
Yes, well, you see, I'm the fellow who wrote the definitive history of the Scopes Evolution Trial, date in Tennessee in 1925.
The book is called The Great Monkey Trial, and it just went out of print a double day, oh, years so ago, after having been in print for, oh, let's say, a dozen or fifteen years.
And it was a book that got quite a lot of attention when it came out, most of it, happy to say favorable.
And it seemed to me, really, I also did an article for the Scientific American a few years ago on the Eprison case.
The article was called The End of the Monkey War, and it's about how the anti-evolution law of the state of Arkansas was appealed up to the U.S. Supreme Court, and the court declared it unconstitutional.
I'd followed that case rather closely and got to know the principles, such as the Eprison and such.
And having been in, and my wife and I have also written a juvenile biography of Charles Darwin, Darwin and his great discovery published by McDonald, I think that's a great print.
But having put so much time in on it, it just seemed to me that with the setup of this particular story, well, you know, the chance for a switch there, how about it,
if the equivalent of our creationists today were the ones who were right for the reasons set forth in the story.
So I took that as my assumption and worked it out from there.
Okay, that's very good. Yeah, when the book started with the trial and I immediately thought of the Scopes trial.
Yeah, exactly. Well, it's a switch on the Scopes trial, essentially.
Okay, I'm not sure I'm going to pronounce this right, but the Gavagan's Bar, is that how it's...
That's correct.
Okay, of course that was another collaboration with Pratt, the story of tales from Gavagan's Bar.
I was curious about the antecedents for that kind of a frame tale, you know, with the bar and the recurring characters and so forth.
Was that something you came up with yourself or was there an antecedent for that?
It did have an antecedent and that was the Jorkin stories of Lord Dunseney, which he wrote five volumes.
And they include some very fine little stories indeed.
I was familiar with the stories. I don't remember whether either Fletcher or I was consciously influenced by their example when we started our Gavagan's Bar series.
Fletcher just said, well, let's write some short stories of this and that story laid in the bar, you know, Bar Room Tall Tales.
And he also would write Dunseney and I daresay he had Jorkin's back up his mind too.
By a coincidence, our friend Arthur C. Clarke over in England was just beginning his Tales of the Fight Hard at the same time, which is also a set of Bar Room Tall Tales.
Neither of us knew about what the other was doing.
Okay, yeah. I thought your book, Antidated, was before the Tales of the White Heart?
I don't know offhand what the date of publication of Tales of the White Heart was, but in any case, I do believe it's correct that both Art and Frat and I were working on these series at the same time.
At least they overlapped. After all, we wrote these stories over a period of several years before they were collected in book form.
They appeared in various magazines, including the Old Weird Tales even.
Hmm.
In the last years, it's folded in 1954.
Would you say that there is anything that would not work as humor in science fiction or science fantasy?
For instance, I have in mind, I'd say, heroic fantasy of the Conan type.
Would it be possible to retain the heroic grandness, the environment of that kind of story and still write it humorously?
Hmm. Well, you couldn't get the same effect that Robert Howard did with his Conan, because in Robert Howard's original Conan stories, there is hardly any humor.
Only in a couple of stories is there a faint gleam of it here and there.
And when I collaborate with President Day-Colon's stories with, let us say, Carter, why he has to calm me down now and then, because I just have a natural tendency to stick a little humor in now and then.
I've been doing it so long.
Natural, but it should not be done because it spoils the general effect.
Now, as for my own stories in that genre, well, I have no hesitation about putting in humor in and putting humor in, and my heroes are in general not Superman.
They have to be pretty able fellows, but I try to make them realistic.
That is with the usual assortment of virtues and vices and strengths and weaknesses.
So that's the kind of character that I personally find it easier to believe in when I read it.
When you write a science fiction story that you intend to be humorous, do you write it as a humorous science fiction story or as a humorous story that is science fiction?
Well, I think that's mainly a matter of definition.
I never really thought of it.
I have not been successful in writing non-imaginative humor.
In other words, writing stories in a realistic setting and primarily humorous.
I did take a crack at one once, back around 1948, I guess it was, just shortly after the Hitlerian War.
And I wrote a whole novel that was sort of intended to be in the general vein of P.G. Woodhouse and Thorne Smith, whom I was quite an admirer.
But unfortunately, when it was finished, everybody who saw it shuddered.
They said it stank and I'm afraid they were right.
Well, it's never been published from that day to this.
And it probably would be better for my reputation if it ever is.
What's been your most popular work in terms of sales?
Do you have any estimation of that?
Oh, goodness, that's hard to say.
And it also depends upon which kind of writing you're talking about.
In fiction, I suppose probably one or the other of the Conan stories.
But then since most of those I've written in collaboration, those that I have written, why I suppose half the credit ought to go to the collaborator.
In nonfiction, I think the most sales are those of the ancient engineers.
Okay, I only had one more question on humor.
I'd like to ask you a little bit about Conan afterwards.
Sure.
Is there anything special or unique about science fiction or science fantasy that makes it a unique feel for a humorist?
I mean, anything that you couldn't do in other forms of fiction?
Well, you can, of course, because of the fact that you're much less limited as to your settings and your basic assumptions than you are in realistic fiction.
It gives you unlimited opportunities for working the essential factors of humor, such as surprise and incongruity.
So I'd say on the whole that it's a very good field for humor.
But in a way that certain other fields are not.
For example, I don't get a laugh out of funny war stories, for example, because to me war is a pretty serious business and not a proper subject for levity.
Okay, to switch direction for just a minute here, your background, as I've read, is engineering, say your college background, sort of a practical science background.
And you've written books on inventions and so forth.
Of course, that's led to many nonfiction books too, as you pointed out.
Does that kind of background influence your science fiction?
Yes, it does. If you read any of my stories laid in an imaginary milieu, you will notice a good deal more attention paid to the nuts and bolts element of the background, the various gadgets that people use and how they work.
You'll notice a good deal more of that than you will in a similar story by one of my contemporaries.
As for example, the last Christian novel that I had published, The Hostage's Deer, at one point where the protagonist, Fergus Reed, is looking for a means to escape.
Incidentally, he is one who gets married to a beautiful extraterrestrial princess and wishes like hell he could get out of it somehow.
Well, she's a great board, is only interested in one thing.
And so while he is down on the waterfront with his bodyguard to see that he doesn't bolt, the fire breaks out.
And presently, a crew of firemen come running up with a fire engine.
Now, the fire engine, however, is the type that was actually used in the ancient world.
And I got that, so I get that through my readings in the history of science and technology, which, to say, is just a big tub with handles at the corners and a pump in the middle.
And the firemen carry it by the handles, they set it down in front of where the fire is, they organize a bucket brigade to fill the tank, and then they heave up and down on the pump handles to squirt water at the fire.
And that is what you might call the predecessor of the modern steam-powered fire engine.
Okay, so some of those books where you write about the inventions, say inventions in their management or inventions patents and so forth, the heroic age of American invention, are those still in print?
Well, now let me think. I believe that invention patents and their management is in print.
In fact, I rather dread the day that let them industries will call me up and say, hey, DeCamb, you've got to rewrite the chapter on copyright, the light of the new copyright law.
The heroic age of American invention, no, that's been out of print for quite a good long while.
Ancient engineers is available from Valentine in paperback.
Natalie, two of my books, Ancient Engineers and Great Cities of the Ancient World, sold much better in Germany than they did in this country.
Great Cities didn't make much of a splash in America, but in Germany it made the best teller list.
What's your reputation in Europe, Natalie, that you brought that up? Are you sell pretty well over there overall in Europe?
Yes, pretty well. Mainly in the United Kingdom and Germany. Also, quite a lot of stuff has come out in Italy.
Those will be translations, correct?
Yes.
I've had a few translations in Japan, even.
Maybe this isn't a fair question to ask of an author, but is it a question of enjoyment or the mood you're in as to whether you write, say, a science fiction or a fantasy book or a nonfiction one?
Is there an enjoyment involved with one over the other, or is it a duty that you feel?
Well, let's say that when I have finished one big job, I like to tackle another one in a different field, just for a change.
In other words, when I have written the novel, well, next time around maybe I'll try an article or a nonfiction book.
When I finish a nonfiction book, I want to get back to fiction.
Right now, for example, I am completing my own autobiography, and my wife is doing the final draft of the Biography of Robert Howard.
And I have a couple of novels, one science fiction and one fantasy in mind, which I want to get to as well as several short stories.
Okay, on the Conan material, I guess heroic fantasy or whatever, or sword and sorcery, whatever the genre.
Now, you had written heroic fantasy that type before you took up with Conan, right?
That is right.
In fact, I was writing it before the term was invented and before I'd even heard of Robert Howard.
How did you get involved with his material?
In with Howard's material?
Right.
I went up to New York and it was around the end of 1950.
And, let me see, I think it was the naval war game at the press department or something.
No, it wasn't.
It was part of his press department.
And he handed me a copy of Conan the Conqueror, found in hardback, published by Noam Press.
And he said, here, take this for long. I think you might find it interesting. I don't care much for it myself, but no.
So I took it. It seems that Martin had, my inadvertence, sent Fletcher to review copies.
Fletcher gave me one.
So I started reading it on the train going home and was hooked right away.
Kept on until I'd read the thing through and then I read it through again.
And then I got hold of John Clark, who had, whom I had heard, casually mentioned Conan once or twice,
but he never tried to tell me on the idea and I said, hey, what is this?
And John said, told me about it.
He had a bound file of tear sheets of the original Conan stories in Weird Tales, which he lent to me.
And I devoured them.
Then a year later, when I found some, learned about some unpublished Conan manuscripts in the custody of the agent for the Howard Literary Estate.
And I read them and arrangements were made with the Howard Ayers and the agent for me to edit them for public and arrange for publication.
And then on things have gone on and on and build up from that.
As far as you know, is there any more of the Howard material which has not been published relating to Conan,
that, you know, papers or story ideas and so forth that have not been...
I don't know, but the person who asked about that is not me, but Glenn Lord in Pasadena, Texas.
Do you envision yourself writing any more Conan material, you know, the original Conan material?
I won't make any promises or predictions.
Right now, let's say I do not have anything like that in mind.
I am involved in the novelization of the Conan the Barbarian movie.
But when that is out of the way, why?
There are no present plans for anything more.
Not that I expect to be idle. I have enough to do to be busy for a whole other lifetime.
I was going to ask you about the movie, your involvement with that. Are you hired as a consultant or a screenwriter?
It's supposed to be a technical advisor.
Do you have any information on when it's going to be out or if it's going to be true to the books?
They are at present shooting in Spain. They expect to finish in May.
And the movie should be released about 13 or 14 months from now.
At least that's the last I've heard, but there are always slippage in these things, you know.
You've written this kind of material for so long.
Probably your perspective is better than anybody else's on this.
Doesn't it seem that heroic fantasy or sword and sorcery is extremely popular now?
A huge reading public.
Have you wondered about that?
Or wondered if it's going to wear off? Is it a fad or the reasons for it?
These things always tend to go in waves and they go up and down and may build up further.
Eventually there's bound to be a dip in public interest, so that doesn't mean that it'll just disappear.
It'll decline little and then maybe rise up again in another 20 or 50 years.
You can't really predict.
I think that part of the popularity of the genre was a reaction to certain trends in fiction following the Second World War,
such as the fondness for heavily subjective psychological or psychiatric stories, very sentimental stories,
stories glorifying the little man, the anti-hero, you know, that hopeless little jerk who can't do anything right
and who has no brains or brawn or character and whose only function is to suffer and suffer.
Well, I think people got sort of tired of that after a while.
So then between the paperback publication of the Conan stories, for which I can claim the credit, I'm the one who sold them,
and the paperback publication of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, which was the other major factor in launching this boom,
why that got people to reading heroic fantasy on a large scale, which they are still doing.
Okay, you mentioned earlier the biography of Robert E. Howard.
Yes.
I read somewhere where the title of that was going to be Dark Valley Destiny. Is that correct?
When is that scheduled for release?
We haven't finished the work on it yet, and we don't have a contract.
We're one of these months. We shall turn the thing over to our agent and they go to it, Alan, and see what's the best deal you can get.
But a great deal depends on who owns what in all the Conan literary properties at that time,
and that becomes a matter of finance and litigation and things of that sort.
I would assume that you are probably as knowledgeable on Howard as anybody living.
In your research and your study of the man, what kind of person did you find him to be?
Well, let's say that I'd like to have met him, which I physically could have in the early 1930s if I had known about him,
but I'd never heard of him at that time.
But he and I had a good many interests in common in history, mythology, and so on.
And we might have gotten along fine.
If I'd want to see him in cross planes, maybe I have sometimes fantasized.
He could have taught me to box while I taught him defense.
I was on my college team, you see, fencing.
It wasn't very good, but then you were the others.
So on the other hand, it's very possible that we couldn't have stood each other,
because you can't tell how the chemical combination of two personalities is going to work out.
And Robert was a person who, one of his outstanding personality quirks,
was a tendency to form dislikes and bitter hatred on little or no pretext.
He hated all sorts of people.
He was a, well, let's say that Conan is an obvious idealization of, just a minute.